# Ctypes

C++ libraries for extraction of data types from C headers, serialization/deserialization, and representation.

This repository contains the following Python scripts:
* `type_extractor`

This repository contains the following libraries:
* `ctypes` -- C++ library for representing C function data types.
* `ctypesparser` -- C++ library for parsing C function data types from JSON files into `ctypes` representation.

## Usage Example

### Ctypes Library

For usage examples of the Ctypes library, see the implementation of the `ctypesparser` library (in `src/ctypesparser`) and `ctypes` unit tests (in `tests/ctypes`).

### Ctypesparser Library

For usage examples of the Ctypesparser library, see the implementation of `ctypesparser` unit tests (in `tests/ctypesparser`).

## Requirements

* A compiler supporting C++14
  * On Windows, only Microsoft Visual C++ is supported (version >= Visual Studio 2015).
* CMake (version >= 3.6)

## Build and Installation

* Recursively clone the repository (it contains submodules):
  * `git clone --recursive https://github.com/avast-tl/ctypes`
* Linux:
  * `cd ctypes`
  * `mkdir build && cd build`
  * `cmake .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<path>`
  * `make && make install`
* Windows:
  * Open MSBuild command prompt, or any terminal that is configured to run the `msbuild` command.
  * `cd ctypes`
  * `mkdir build && cd build`
  * `cmake .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<path> -G<generator>`
  * `msbuild /m /p:Configuration=Release ctypes.sln`
  * `msbuild /m /p:Configuration=Release INSTALL.vcxproj`
  * Alternatively, you can open `ctypes.sln` generated by `cmake` in Visual Studio IDE.

You must pass the following parameters to `cmake`:
* `-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<path>` to set the installation path to `<path>`.
* (Windows only) `-G<generator>` is `-G"Visual Studio 14 2015"` for 32-bit build using Visual Studio 2015, or `-G"Visual Studio 14 2015 Win64"` for 64-bit build using Visual Studio 2015. Later versions of Visual Studio may be used.

You can pass the following additional parameters to `cmake`:
* `-DCTYPES_DOC=ON` to build with API documentation (requires Doxygen and Graphviz, disabled by default).
* `-DCTYPES_PARSER=OFF` to build without the Ctypesparser library (enabled by default).
* `-DCTYPES_TESTS=ON` to build with tests (disabled by default).
* `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug` to build with debugging information, which is useful during development. By default, the project is built in the `Release` mode. This has no effect on Windows, but the same thing can be achieved by running `msbuild` with the `/p:Configuration=Debug` parameter.

## Library Use

### Adding Ctypes and Ctypesparser to your project via git submodule

Two targets named `ctypes` and `ctypesparser` are exposed. They can be used as follows:
```cmake
target_link_libraries(project-that-needs-ctypes ctypes)
target_link_libraries(project-that-needs-ctypesparser ctypesparser)
```

### Using Ctypes and Ctypesparser via CMake `find_package` command

Not supported at the moment.

## API Documentation

You can generate the API documentation by yourself. Pass `-DCTYPES_DOC=ON` to `cmake` and run `make doc`.

## License

Copyright (c) 2017 Avast Software, licensed under the MIT license. See the `LICENSE` file for more details.

The Ctypes repository uses third-party libraries or other resources listed, along with their licenses, in the `LICENSE-THIRD-PARTY` file.

## Contributing

See [RetDec contribution guidelines](https://github.com/avast-tl/retdec/wiki/Contribution-Guidelines).
